28
When I was young, my parents worshipped medical doctors as if they were exceptional beings possessing godlike qualities. But I never dreamed of pursuing a career in medicine until I entered the hospital for a rare disease. I became a medical curiosity, attracting some of the area¡¯s top specialists to look in on me and review my case. As a patient, and a teenager eager to return to college, I asked each doctor who examined me, ¡°What caused my disease?¡± ¡°How will you make me better?¡± The typical response was nonverbal. They shook their heads and walked out of my room. I remember thinking to myself, ¡°Well, I could do that.¡± When it became clear to me that no doctor could answer my basic questions, I walked out of the hospital against medical advice. Returning to college, I pursued medicine with a great passion


29
Do you know one of the best remedies for coping with family tension? Two words: ¡°I¡¯m sorry.¡± It¡¯s amazing how hard some people find them to say. They think it implies weakness or defeat. Nothing of the kind. In fact, it is exactly the opposite . Another good way of relieving tension is a row! The sea is ever so much calmer after a storm. A row has another advantage. When tempers are raised, unspoken truths usually come out. They may hurt a bit, especially at the time. Yet, at the end, you know each other a bit better. Lastly, most of the tensions and quarrels between children are natural. Even when they seem to be constant, wise parents don¡¯t worry too much.


30
Jake¡¯s own flying dream began at a village festival. He was four years old. His uncle, a tall silent pilot, had bought him a red party balloon from a charity stall, and tied it to the top button of Jake¡¯s shirt. The balloon seemed to have a mind of its own. It was filled with helium, a gas four times lighter than air, though Jake did not understand this at the time. It pulled mysteriously at his button. ¡°Maybe you will fly,¡± Jake¡¯s uncle remarked. He led his nephew up a grassy bank so they could look over the whole festival. Below Jake stretched the little tents and the stalls. Above him bobbed the big red balloon, shiny and beautiful. It kept pulling him towards the sky, and he began to feel unsteady on his feet. Then his uncle let go of his hand, and Jake¡¯s dream began.


31
You can actually become your own cheerleader by talking to yourself positively and then acting as if you were already the person that you wanted to be. Act as though you were trying out for the role of a positive, cheerful, happy, and likable person. Walk, talk, and act as if you were already that person. Treat everyone you meet as though you had just won an award for being the very best person in your industry or as though you had just won the lottery. You will be amazed at how much better you feel about yourself after just a few minutes of pretending.

32
Imagine this scene. There are six people in an elevator with an actor hired by researchers. The actor drops a bunch of coins and pencils. They fall to the floor with a clatter. And then, as the elevator goes down floor by floor, not one person moves a muscle to help. The people in the elevator have to notice the actor picking up the coins and pencils on the floor. Some people may feel uncomfortable and might silently wonder whether to get involved. But each person is surrounded by five others who are doing nothing. If the people knew they were being tested, every one would instantly come to the aid of the stranger. But in the context of everyday life, where people are not thinking deliberately about how others are influencing them, going along with the group just feels like the natural thing to do.

33
Patients should be aware that there can be differing views among specialists about who should be treated for various conditions. For example, expert committees in Europe and the United States set different guidelines about when to treat high blood pressure. The group of American experts believed that for mild elevation of blood pressure the benefits exceeded the risks from treatment. They wrote guidelines suggesting that patients with mild blood pressure elevation take medicine. But in Europe, an expert committee with access to the same scientific data set different guidelines that don¡¯t advise treatment for mild elevation of blood pressure. In Europe, people with the same symptoms would not be encouraged to take medicine. Different groups of experts can disagree significantly about what is ¡°best practice.¡± 

34
If you ask someone to name three sports, most likely he or she will be able to answer with ease. After all, nearly everyone has an idea about what types of activities are regarded as sports and which are not. Most of us think we know what sports are. However, the line drawn between examples of sports, leisure, and play is not always clear. In fact, devising a definition that establishes clear and clean parameters around what types of activities should be included and excluded is relatively difficult to do. Activities that are regarded as play today may gain the status of sport in the future. For example, many people once played badminton in their backyards but this activity was hardly considered a sport. Since 1992, however, badminton has been an Olympic sport!

35
For some people, there is an irony to success. Many people who achieve great success don¡¯t always feel it. For example, some who achieve fame talk about the loneliness that often goes with it. That¡¯s because success and achievement are not the same thing, yet too often we mistake one for the other. Achievement is something you reach or attain, like a goal. It is something tangible, clearly defined and measurable. It comes when you pursue and obtain what you want. Success, in contrast, is a feeling or a state of being. ¡°She feels successful. She is successful,¡± we say, using the verb to be to suggest this state of being.

36
Every day in each of my classes I randomly select two students who are given the title of ¡°official questioners.¡± These students are assigned the responsibility to ask at least one question during that class. After being the day¡¯s official questioner, one of my students, Carrie, visited me in my office. Just to break the ice, I asked in a lighthearted way, ¡°Did you feel honored to be named one of the first ¡®official questioners¡¯ of the semester?¡± In a serious tone, she answered that she¡¯d been extremely nervous when I appointed her at the beginning of class. But then, during that class, she felt differently from how she¡¯d felt during other lectures. It was a lecture just like the others, but this time, she said, she was forced to have a higher level of consciousness; she was more aware of the content of the lecture and discussion. She also admitted that as a result she got more out of that class.

19
I rode my bicycle alone from work on the very quiet road of my hometown. Suddenly, I noticed a man with long hair secretly riding behind me. I felt my heart jump. I quickened my legs pushing the pedals, hoping to ride faster. He kept following me through the dark, across the field. At last, I got home and tried to reach the bell. The man reached forme. I turned my head around and saw the oddest face in the world. From deep in his throat, I heard him say, ¡°Excuse me, you dropped your bag,¡± giving the bag back to me. I couldn¡¯t say anything, but was full of shame and regret for misunderstanding him.

20
Much has been written and said about positive self¡þtalk ¡ªfor example, repeating to ourselves ¡°I am wonderful¡± when we feel down, ¡°I am strong¡± when going through a difficult time, or ¡°I am getting better every day in every way¡± each morning in front of the mirror. The evidence that this sort of pep talk works is weak, and there are psychologists who suggest that it can actually hurt more than it can help. Little, unfortunately, has been written about real self¡þtalk, acknowledging honestly what we are feeling at a given point. When feeling down, saying ¡°I am really sad¡± or ¡°I feel so torn¡± ¡ª to ourselves or to someone we trust ¡ª is much more helpful than declaring ¡°I am tough¡± or ¡°I am happy.¡±

21
The word sin itself is an interesting concept. It¡¯s actually a term from archery, and it means ¡°to miss the mark.¡± When we commit the ¡°sin¡± of failing to take care of our bodies through proper nutrition, exercise, and rest, we¡¯re missing the mark of what life is all about. Business people will tell you that the individual who is in the best physical shape often wins in negotiations, because he has the physical stamina to see the deal through. One of the reasons world¡þclass golfers are head and shoulders above the other golfers of their era is that they are in so much better shape than the others are. They work out not just on the practice range but in the weight room, which means that they have the strength and stamina to win not just the physical game but the mental game in order to close out their opponents in major tournaments.

22
Introducing recovery in all aspects of my life has transformed my overall experience. In four or five intensive hour¡þand¡þa¡þhalf sessions, each followed by at least fifteen minutes of recovery, I get just about as much done as I did previously in a twelve¡þhour marathon day. Taking one full day off every week makes me more productive overall rather than less so. And finally, I have come to see vacations as a good investment. Today, like a sprinter, I get as much work done as I did previously like a marathon runner ¡ª in a lot less time and with a lot more energy and positive emotions. I spend more time with my family and friends, and when I do, I am more present. There is nomagic here; I am simply paying better attention to my human needs.

23
Children sometimes see and say things to please adults; teachers must realize this and the power it implies. Teachers who prefer that children see beauty as they themselves do are not encouraging a sense of aesthetics in children. They are fostering uniformity and obedience. Only children who choose and evaluate for themselves can truly develop their own aesthetic taste. Just as becoming literate is a basic goal of education, one of the key goals of all creative early childhood programs is to help young children develop the ability to speak freely about their own attitudes, feelings, and ideas about art. Each child has a right to a personal choice of beauty, joy, and wonder. Aesthetic development takes place in secure settings free of competition and adult judgment.

24
Victor Frankl, a famous psychiatrist, remained head of the neurology department at the Vienna Policlinic Hospital for twenty¡þfive years. He wrote more than thirty books for both professionals and general readers. He met with politicians, world leaders such as Pope Paul VI, philosophers, students, teachers, and numerous individuals who had read and been inspired by his books. He lectured widely in Europe, the Americas, Australia, Asia, and Africa; and held professorships at Harvard, Stanford, and the University of Pittsburgh. Even in his nineties, Frankl continued to engage in dialogue with visitors from all over the world and to respond personally to some of the hundreds of letters he received every week. Twenty¡þnine universities awarded him honorary degrees, and the American Psychiatric Association honored him with the Oskar Pfister Award.

28
The competition to sell manuscripts to publishers is fierce. I would estimate that less than one percent of the material sent to publishers is ever published. Since so much material is being written, publishers can be very selective. The material they choose to publish must not only have commercial value, but be very competently written and free of editing and factual errors. Any manuscript that contains errors stands little chance at being accepted for publication. Most publishers will not want to waste time with writers whose material contains too many mistakes.

29
Sometimes our judgments of ourselves are unreasonably negative. This is especially true for people with low self¡þesteem. Several studies have shown that such people tend to magnify the importance of their failures. They often underestimate their abilities. And when they get negative feedback, such as a bad evaluation at work or a disrespectful remark from someone they know, they are likely to believe that it accurately reflects their self¡þworth. People with low self¡þesteem also have a higher¡þthan¡þaverage risk of being depressed. This hurts not only an individual¡¯s mental and emotional well¡þbeing but also his or her physical health and the quality of his or her social relationships.

30
The nurse showed Lina an opening in the side of the incubator. Lina slipped her hand in and touched her daughter¡¯s hand. She lightly rubbed the baby¡¯s wrist and fingers. Then she turned to the nurse as tears streamed down her cheeks. ¡°When can I hold her?¡± asked Lina. ¡°Probably later today. After the doctor checks her,¡± said the nurse. ¡°It is important that you bond with her. The more you are around her, the better it will be for the baby.¡± Lina wiped the tears from her cheeks with the back of her free hand. ¡°You don¡¯t have to worry, my little darling,¡± Lina whispered. ¡°I¡¯m going to be right here with you. I can hardly wait to take you home.¡± To her surprise, the baby opened her eyes and grasped Lina¡¯s finger. A surge of joy shot through her.

31
When Charles Darwin developed his theory of natural selection, he created a picture of the evolutionary process in which organismic adaptation was ultimately caused by competition for survival and reproduction. This biological¡°struggle for existence¡± bears considerable resemblance to the human struggle between businessmen who are striving for economic success in competitive markets. Long before Darwin published his work, social scientist Adam Smith had already considered that in business life, competition is the driving force behind economic efficiency and adaptation. It isindeed very striking how similar the ideas are on which the founders of modern theory in evolutionary biology and economics based their main thoughts.

32
In 1944 the German rocket¡þbomb attacks on London suddenly escalated. Over two thousand V¡þ1 flying bombs fell on the city, killing more than five thousand people and wounding many more. Somehow, however, the Germans consistently missed their targets. Bombs that were intended for Tower Bridge, or Piccadilly, would fall well short of the city, landing in the less populated suburbs. This was because, in fixing their targets, the Germans relied on secret agents they had planted in England. They did not know that these agents had been discovered, and that in their place, English¡þcontrolled agents were giving them subtly deceptive information. The bombs would hit farther and farther from their targets every time they fell. By the end of the attack they were landing on cows in the country. By feeding the enemy wrong information, the English army gained a strong advantage.

33
Most people interact with commodities on a daily basis. If you really stop and think about it, most of what average people spend their money on revolves around the consumption of commodities. When you wake up in the morning, you might drink a cup of coffee. On the way to work, you might put gasoline in your car. When you pay your electric bills, buy a car, buy clothes, or even bake a cake, you are spending money on commodity¡þrelated expenses. The prices of these items are dependent on the prices of the physical commodities. For instance, when crude oil prices rise because of increased tensions in the Middle East, you can easily see this in gasoline prices. When excessive heat drives up demand for natural gas, you can also see this in your utility bill.

34
Our sense of how deprived we are is relative. This is an observation that is both obvious and (upon exploration)deeply profound, and it explains all kinds of otherwise puzzling observations. Which do you think, for example, has a higher suicide rate: countries whose citizens declare themselves to be very happy, such as Switzerland, Denmark, Iceland, the Netherlands, and Canada, or countries like Greece, Italy, Portugal, and Spain, whose citizens describe themselves as not very happy at all? Answer: the so¡þcalled happy countries. If you are depressed in a place where most people are pretty unhappy, you compare yourself to those around you and you don¡¯t feel all that bad. But can you imagine how difficult it must be to be depressed in a country where everyone else has a big smile on their face?

35
Companies would like to enhance employee contentment on the job for several reasons. Job satisfaction increases productivity because happy employees work harder, allowing them to produce more at a lower cost. Moreover, in many service organizations, client satisfaction often depends directly on the attitudes of employees, who are the company¡¯s face for customers. Because people¡¯s purchasing patterns are affected by how they feel during the buying experience, happy employees matter. When workers are dissatisfied, their unhappiness makes the customer¡¯s experience worse; as a result, consumers buy less, and company performance suffers. Clearly, it is important for companies to know what makes their employees satisfied with their jobs.

36
James Francis was born in England and emigrated to the United States at age 18. One of his first contributions to water engineering was the invention of the sprinkler system now widely used in buildings for fire protection. Francis¡¯s design involved a series of perforated pipes running throughout the building. It had two defects: it had to be turned on manually, and it had only one valve. Once the system was activated by opening the valve, water would flow out everywhere. If the building did not burn down, it would certainly be completely flooded. Only some years later, when other engineers perfected the kind of sprinkler heads in use nowadays, did the concept become popular. They turned on automatically and were activated only where actually needed.

37
The difference between selling and marketing is very simple. Selling focuses mainly on the firm¡¯s desire to sell products for revenue. Salespeople and other forms of promotion are used to create demand for a firm¡¯s current products. Clearly, the needs of the seller are very strong. Marketing, however, focuses on the needs of the consumer, ultimately benefiting the seller as well. When a product or service is truly marketed, the needs of the consumer are considered from the very beginning of the new product development process, and the product-¡þservice mix is designed to meet the unsatisfied needs of the consuming public. When a product or service is marketed in the proper manner, very little selling is necessary because the consumer need already exists and the product or service is merely being produced to satisfy the need.

38
If you apply all your extra money to paying off debt without saving for the things that are guaranteed to happen, you will feel like you¡¯ve failed when something does happen. You will end up going further into debt. Let¡¯s use an example of an unexpected auto repair bill of $500. If you don¡¯t save for this, you¡¯ll end up with another debt to pay off. You¡¯ll feel frustrated that you have been working so hard to pay things off and yet you just added more debt to your list. On the other hand, if you are saving for auto repairs and pay down your debt a little slower, you will feel proud that you planned for the auto repair. You will have cash to pay for it, and you are still paying down your debt uninterrupted and on schedule. Instead of frustration and disappointment from the unexpected auto repair, you feel proud and excited.

39
A dramatic example of how culture can influence our biological processes was provided by anthropologist Clyde Kluckhohn, who spent much of his career in the American Southwest studying the Navajo culture. Kluckhohn tells of a non¡þ-Navajo woman he knew in Arizona who took a somewhat perverse pleasure in causing a cultural response to food. At luncheon parties she often served sandwiches filled with a light meat that resembled tuna or chicken but had a distinctive taste. Only after everyone had finished lunch would the hostess inform her guests that what they had just eaten was neither tuna salad nor chicken salad but rather rattlesnake salad. Invariably, someone would vomit upon learning what they had eaten. Here, then, is an excellent example of how the biological process of digestion was influenced by a cultural idea. Not only was the process influenced, it was reversed: the culturally based idea that rattlesnake meat is a disgusting thing to eat triggered a violent reversal of the normal digestive process.

40
Sometimes animals seem unconcerned even when approached closely, whereas other times they disappear in a flash when you come in sight. Animals tend to be disturbed by unexpected and unpredictable events; quick movements and loud noises are particularly stressful. Animals that are regularly disturbed by visitors are more likely to tolerate your intrusion than those that have had little previous contact with humans. In Yellowstone National Park, for example, elk that live close to the town of Mammoth Hot Springs typically do not flee until cross-¡þcountry skiers get within fifty feet. In more remote parts of the park, however, elk take flight when skiers are as much as a quarter mile away.
